this is the courseid welcome it's very
nice to see your faces I hope you're not
too hungover or tired or whatever and I
am Alan this is Michael and their
Stephen in fact they're and we can talk
to you about how my PFS deals with oils
part one of five it's all right there
exciting I think that's been the
feedback so far all right first up okay
can anyone tell me what the meaning of
the word immutable is okay awesome
unable to be changed as opposed to
mutable which is liable to be changed so
we're gonna talk about why ipfs has a
big focus on immutability and the
mutable data in a peer-to-peer network
the one on the right there's no central
point of authority no one to implicitly
trust but in the web of today we we
implicitly trust kind of things like
institutions so certificate authorities
social media government but that trust
is easily subverted and we can't
necessarily rely on the data we receive
to be the data we ask for even though we
often do resource integrity Tekken is
one way to ensure that data you asked
for is the data you've got the idea is
to calculate an identifier for the data
from the data itself the identifier is
called a hash and we use cryptography
when computing the hash to ensure
certain properties like uniqueness and
determinism but we're gonna talk a
little bit more about that in the next
session so once we've got this hash that
we can share it with the rest of the
world these two people think they're and
when someone gets hold of that data they
also calculate the hash and then they
check that they match and if they do
then yes you've got what the data you
are for win if someone else gets hold of
the data and the hashes don't match then
Oh someone's tampered with your data so
the guarantee of interpreting checking
integrity checking is that content is
immutable if the data change is the hash
I generate no longer matches so
verifiability is one of the main reasons
for using immutable data in the web of
today I can put my poodle picture up
abc.com slash poodle jpg and 24 hours
later I can doodle on my poodle so let's
say I add some glasses make him look a
little bit more sophisticated so the the
problem is that the content isn't
inherently tied to the address the
content can change but the URL doesn't
so depending on when I access this
poodle it could be completely different
so what we have on the web today is
location addressing it tells us where
the data is stored but not much else
content interesting on the other hand is
where we use a hash to access the
content and it allows us to verify the
content we receive is the content that
we asked for
okay caching and D duping immutable
content completely solves the caching
problem like that since the data is
never going to change the cache rules
our cache this forever
so back to our example if we were using
content addressing up cute poodle has a
specific address derived from its
content the hack and if I change that
that poodle 24 hours later the address
also changes but that's okay
it could be verified cached and fetched
by anyone what if I wanted to keep both
files well because the content is
immutable ID FS any read really needs to
store the changes the differences the
two files that we see actually share
many of the same bytes so if I have one
of those files the amount of data I have
to transfer to fetch the other is really
minimal
there currently if I want to store those
two very similar pictures I need to
store both of them in full on my disk
and if I want to share them with someone
and you want both and I want them to see
both of those pictures and I have to
transfer them both in full and we'll see
more about how ipfs does that magic DG
ping stuff later
okay effect from anyone if the content
is immutable and I can verify its
integrity I should just be able to get
it from anyone and this suits p2p really
really well but that's not true off the
web today so I have two sites on the on
the net hosting the same content how do
I know which of these poodles is the
correct poodle well okay so the answer
is that we can't trust that any of these
poodles are correct they are both
adorable poodles but we just can't get
it from anyone where it needs to come
from a trust trusted source because I
can't verify its integrity all right so
we use content addressing in ipfs and we
use a special hash called a CID CID
stands for content identifier and we're
gonna take a closer look now in part two
of five okay
it all starts with cryptographic hash a
critic a fake hash function Maps input
of arbitrary size to output of a fixed
size and we want a few properties from
that hash the same data should always
produce the same hash so it's
deterministic it should be impossible to
invert we as in we shouldn't be able to
reconstruct the data from the hash it
should also be unique so no two
different files should produce the same
there are many different hashing
algorithms that exist ipfs uses char to
256 by default that's just some of the
some of them that are available in ITSs
that we could use older aggro algorithms
like sha-1 are broken they're proven to
not be collision free and if and the
problem is that if algorithms can break
we're going to want to switch that hash
that we use by default in the future the
problem with switching algorithms is
that given a hash which is just a series
of bits what algorithm did we use to
generate that hash we need a
future-proof way of of identifying the
hash function used to generate a hash as
well as the hash name say hello to multi
hash it'll solve all your problems so
multi hash is is the hash which is just
at the end there but it's also a prefix
and that prefix is one number now go
algorithm and which identifies the hash
algorithm that was used to generate the
hack and another number which is the
hash length these two numbers are both
variants and Virant is just a compact
encoding for integers the algo number is
a multi codec because a is Savarin but b
it's it's it's value is a predefined
value that we agree on it's in the inner
table on the Internet
the multi-coated identifier for char two
two five six is the number eighteen and
our hash length is two five six in
binary it looks like this you'll see
that the hash length is actually two
bytes long and that's because the length
is over one two seven and in far in
encoding numbers above 1 to 7 are
encoded as 2 bytes so you can kind of
think of this as like two times one two
eight is two five six but that's not
really how far in works
that's just a coincidence yeah two bites
because it's over one to seven we want
to support multiple encoding dangerous
so you've got a hash that I'm dresses
your data when you get the data back how
do you know how its encoded we might it
might be encoded in C Bohr concise
binary object representation it might be
encoded in protocol buffers it might be
encoded as just playing out JSON why do
we want this well it might be a
particularly compact binary encoding so
really efficient for storage but it
might be for convenience might be just
easy it might be really quick
but we have this same problem again like
when we're looking at some encoded data
how do we know how to decode it same
solution more metadata prefix so this is
an IP LD codec and ipfs at the moment
any any young any content that you add
gets is the codec that used to encode
the data is tagged i dag PB and it is P
B stands for protocol buffers so it's
just protocol buffers encoded yeah like
I said it's a compact encoding for the
data and we've had some metadata to
start after the hash yeah there are many
IP LD formats that you can use and there
are too many alright so there are two
different CID versions so that's mildly
frustrating as they often nowadays or
going into the future you will see
version 1 as the main version that we're
using there is version 0 and version 1
it's just a number prefix and that we
add on to the front so all of you if you
have a use ipfs before you might be used
to seeing c IDs like this version 0 is a
this top one and a version one one is
the bottom one and so the version 0 ones
begin with kind of qm usually version
version zero begins with qm version one
begins with baffi or bath case sometimes
alright so the thing is see IDs are
binary data's zeros and ones make for
really long strings when they're printed
out it doesn't even fit on the saw on
the slide so what we do is we use a
higher number base encoding and to make
them shorter and easier to like print
out and recognize even when in string
form we have another problem again how
do we interpret the number base encoding
that this string was create created with
characters in one encoding are valid in
another encoding so we can't just look
at the string and be like that's that's
a base buddy too so how do we fix that
well you guessed it more meta prefix
this is multi base and multi base helps
us know the number base the content is
encoded with the first symbol is the
identifier for the encoding B is base 52
Z or Z is base 58 BTC and M is base 64
version zero C IDs like the QM one you
saw in the last slide are also base 58
encoded and I just told you that base 58
should be prefixed with Z but they're
not if you're wondering about that then
don't worry we will talk about it in a
minute okay so the rest of the string
after the first first symbol is the rest
of the CID
encoded in that particular base so all
together for a CID this is what it looks
like in binary form is the CID version
is the IP LD format multi codec and it's
the multi action the multi hash is split
up in as you know because we discovered
it into the hashing function used the
hash length
as a stream we have the multi base
encoding and that encoding applied to
the rest of the CID cool all right so
you can try this as well
if you fire up your browser and go to
CID des ipfs the IO and if you have a
CID happening they'll happen to have one
lying around then you can paste it in to
that tool and it will pick out these
properties that we've just been talking
about the CID and show you them there's
a tool in ipfs if you've got it
installed on the command line called
ipfs CID and that will allow you to
change the number of eighths or the
version number of a CID if you type IP
the CID - help it'll tell you how to use
it and so if you want to if you've got
like a b0c idea and want to convert it
to be one and put that in or whatever
but I'm gonna so I'm gonna open this up
now and show you a few pre-prepared some
C IDs I prepared earlier I can figure
out how to open it up it won't connect
of course
daemon
all right soon this first Eid I'd have
to start with string this is a Buffy CID
this is a bass 32 encoded CID
Oh hammer gin once the ID is encoded
with the IPO D format called dag PB
we've got the multi hash at the end
which is shot the name of the mountain
hash the name of the hashing algorithm
is shout 2 2 5 6 the length of 2 5 6 and
that is the actual hash so multi base as
as I was saying is a it's code is be
start at the string is B so that's good
for - Thank You B for the multi hash -
Curt like the code for char 2 2 5 6 is
18 as you saw on the slides so yeah
that's that's one I've got a base64
encoded see over here if I paste that in
remember I said basic before CID start
with an M and they do according to this
it's ok so this is another CID V 1 yeah
basics T 4
I've also got one here with a different
IPL deformer
so this is a v1c ID encoded with base 58
BTC and this is interesting because it's
using a dag see bor IP LD format not the
dag PB which is the vector V is a
default for adding files do not get that
but you can use the ipfs dag API to to
create structures that have different
encodings and this one's good for okay
and so finally the one you've probably
all been waiting for
what is going on here all right um this
is a V 0 CID as you can see here um
begins with QM it's encoding the face 58
but what if we go here multi based code
implicit multi codec code implicit what
should we should we talk about that yeah
oh cool that's good alright
in the beginning there was only multi
hash and they were encoded as base 58
BTC all version zero see IDs have no
multi base and so that's why they don't
start with Z why did I start with QM
though well they are just multi hashes
and MA and they're just multi hashes
encoded the face 58 so if you remember
back to the slides about multi hashes
multi hashes are the hashing function
plus the half length plus the hash and
those two things at the start of the of
the multi hash are kind of fixed usually
in ipfs so which is why you see a lot of
these and and that it's just the what it
is these you this qm is just those two
numbers encoded in base 58 the multi
base is always base 58 BTC like it said
and so what else do these not have if
version zero see IDs are just multi hash
what do they not have other than not
having anyone right they don't have a
format they don't have a CID version so
altogether for V zeroes this is way
simpler it's just they're just multi
actors and it's drink form their base 58
encoded multi hashes which is why they
start with cue em you can kind of think
of them like this so the multi base is
always based 58 feet easy PTC is Z it's
implicit it's not written CID version is
always 0 it's implicit it's not written
the IP LD format is always dag PB it's
implicit it's not written the hash
function is always char to 256
it's it's explicit not implicit it was a
trick question it's in the multi hash so
the hash function is in the multi fat
patch it is in is there the the hash
length is also explicit it's in the
multi hash and if any of those variables
change then you don't have a V zero CID
anymore all right cool so now you know
how I TFS addresses content using C IDs
and hashes and we can we can now learn
about the data structures that ipfs
actually addresses so cool hand over to
Michael everybody
we've done this three other times so
what's a dag I'm sure that you've
probably heard at this point come around
a little bit
dag is just a fancy acronym for direct
acrylic RAF which is a very fancy word
for this concept if you think about a
normal tree structure you have a root
and then some branches and then
eventually some leaves and typically in
a tree structure a leaf would have one
parent and a dag it's a tree but at
least it could have multiple parents you
can't have circular references we'll get
into that in a minute that's impossible
that's all I mean unnecessary so let's
build a dag so one interesting thing
about building hash based data
structures is that you have to build
them backwards so get used to writing
recursive functions I hope you enjoy
that so we're gonna start here with
hello world just our little object which
is the leaf node we're gonna get a half
of that the hash is cume hash one now we
build the first branch to that leaf node
that's gonna you know being objective
property of food that points at this
policeman that's gonna get cube hash two
and then we can create another leaf node
all pointing back into a parent
you know another property is just an
arbitrary metadata and both of those are
referred to in the roof so they've both
get patched and then used as properties
in the root government so what you end
up with is a full data structure that
looks something like this right now in
this one you can't tell that these are
basically the same thing but
semantically this is a big data
structure that you get and then you can
break that into blocks like this yeah
obviously this is a very tiny data
structure so we wouldn't normally break
this into a bunch of blocks but when you
have really arbitrarily large data
structures and you want to break them
into smaller Samantha blocks this is how
you do it you do everything and the way
that links end up working in any API and
IPL de or an IPSS is that they get trend
they get traverse basically
transparently so you know if you take
the the half of qm4 here and you follow
it through you know one who hello
you traverse through the entire
structure until you just hello thing
right and it's just going to grab all of
those blocks for you in traverse it
transparently but you can also you know
grab the hash of one of the right so you
know if you already have the hash of any
of these branches you can traverse it
even more efficiently
um here we go so if we look at the tree
now sort of in a top-down way where the
links are pointing down we can talk
about some of the nice constraints of
making days so we see here that we have
two branches pointing to the same leaf
but what happens if we try to create a
reference back to the parent if we
basically try to create a circular
reference well it's actually impossible
because if you modify this you're going
to modify the hatch and because the
hatchet this is part of what is like
inside of these leaves that are included
in the root - then that would change the
halves of everything all the way up so
this is knowledge what the hack would be
of the root node is just impossible to
know up front unless you have a hash
pump in the slip broken so if you don't
use shell one bad things get so any
questions before we get into the sort of
block sizes in the discussion about that
a little bit no questions okay block
sizes so yeah block sizes are like the
three bears you know you like to hot to
cold just writes so Lots can be too big
and there's some when you start to make
blocks bigger and bigger you get a set
of different problems one big one is
that you can't download a single block
from multiple peers the problem is that
in an untrusted Network anybody could
just give you bad data the only way that
you have to validate if the data was
right or not is the hash of the entire
block so if you pulled data from two
people for the same block and then it
doesn't validate who sent you bad data
no idea
so like BitTorrent has been dealing with
this for like longer than anybody and
they just don't try to do that anymore
if it appears too slow and they decided
to take it from a new period they'll
just
you so when you have these large
immutable structures and then you mutate
them you get a new route we're get into
it a little bit you end up creating what
are called orphan blocks um if you've
ever built databases or dealt with
anything like on disk mutable data
structures you did with the same problem
we're like as you change things you end
up with data that's just like garbage
that then has to get collected at some
point in time so when you have really
big blocks that leaves you with really
big orphan blocks and then those really
big orphan lots create like a bigger GC
problem different transports may have
different limitations bit swap has
issues with blocks over two megabytes
right now that will probably be fixed
but you should still try to keep that in
mind and keep in mind that other
transports are gonna have some you also
end up with a lot less deduplication the
bigger that you make the blocks that's
because the the only method that we have
for deduplication is the hash itself so
if you take all these these little
particles that would be the same data
across many different nodes but they're
not links they're just embedded in the
blocks then those won't ever get you
duplicated you small so you also end up
with issues when you make a bunch of
tiny tiny tiny blocks so you the big one
is that you just end up with more
requests for more blocks if you want to
get like a small amount of data you end
up getting like a lot of different
blocks that could be out of the network
that could be off of disk but it's
always going to incur some kind of
round-trip usually to i/o unless you've
had like a lot of the memory cache day
you also end up with more encoding time
when you write different block encoders
you can make them more efficient the
more do you have
at a time usually so if you if you have
a much smaller sets of data then you may
end up with less efficient encoding
times the big one though is hashing
hashes hashing functions have usually
have guarantees about how long they're
going to take for any amount of data so
if you end up with a lot of smaller
blocks you're going to end up with like
many more hashes which is actually going
to spend like a lot more compute time
about that magic and then so similar to
the block request you end up with just
more hops to a given piece of data so
whenever you want to look at something
through a deep graph you end up like
going from one thing to the next and the
more that you've created the more links
in that team that you create the more
potential performance in that yeah
so what's just right just right like
very much depends on your use case there
just isn't one true way to do this
unfortunately this is why we've created
so many flexible structures and how you
create blocks and how you create your
DAGs is the different use cases are
going to call for very different dag
structures so if you want to optimize
for reads versus writes if you can take
a lot of performance cost up front at
right time to make the reads really fast
you might do that if you if you have as
often when you have mutable structures
you will not actually mutate a
particular part of the graph but you
might just recreate it every time a good
example of this is like when ipfs
creates a file and chunks it up we
always pull that whole file out of disk
and then run it through the chunker we
don't like look at the existing chunked
file and go like oh I see like a
particle that I can just stick in here
right like you know in order to figure
out if they match we just re-encode it
every time and so you would use a very
different algorithm to create that dag
and balanced essentially then you would
if you were just trying to mutate a dag
over time right have just like a really
good example of like something that um
you take in place really often and so
there is a there's an algorithm and a
ham
guarantees a certain balance and a
fixed-width
sorry epochs depth of how big that tree
will get so these are just like you know
different trade-offs that you can make
when you're deciding the day and how
much and how big you want great the one
you also have transport performance
issues right if you're pulling all of
your blocks you know out it was like an
HTTP Duke connection to one host it's
going to have a very different
performance profile than pulling them
out of their peer network and so you
might be able to make a completely
different trade-offs when you're when
you're creating those block structures
that would otherwise oh wait any
questions before we break yeah so it
turns out that particular problem in the
file case is dependent on the file type
and there are different chunker's that
you use to potentially get better
deduplication at a different file types
and so we will actually get into that a
little bit later dude I think we talked
about rabbit a bit right yeah so like if
you have text ravenous like an algorithm
that breaks it up in a really nice way
to
yeah that'll be in the next section
promise yeah okay any other questions
about DAGs and box sizes yes do you
believe that they're very efficient or
which algorithms like the production of
the day for anything that's put into ad
um I think that we have some good
options so the problem right now is that
we are not pre-configured for different
data types to use different hunkers you
have to tell it which sucker I think
that we have some really good options in
which chuggers to use and pretty decent
defaults in the chunker i think that the
the thing that we're not very efficient
at right now and you necessity one is
that the dag leads up to the file so the
directory in the file right so like if
you have a really tiny file we don't
have a way to like just inline that
binary into the file I know that file is
really tiny you'd land it into a
directory right like if you had a
directory of five files and the entire
set was like maybe like one tenth of a
megabyte just one block Thank You Karis
um but we don't actually have a way to
do that in dag PB right now so in the
UNICEF's v2 deep dives later today I'll
get into sort of how we might solve so I
think that we we don't have a very
efficient way to create into a file but
once we get into file chunking we've
done some pretty good work there
associating yes yes but in users beat
you
just
so right mm-hmm
that's many blocks right now so right
now in use of c1 that's going to be one
block for the the file metadata and then
at least one block for the actual file
data that was leaking - and then the
directory around it would be interlocked
so they will in the future I think that
like if you're just thinking about dag
sort of generically the way that we've
done things sort of in throughout the
stack is that a block can contain an
arbitrary number of what we call nodes
right so no there's like any map or any
value within it we don't have in newer
codecs like the XE Boren deck JSON we
don't have any sort of limitations on
yeah how do you can go with that what
types that you can use so in the future
I would say like yes one block could
contain many files right now there are
some yeah there is
yeah tend to your question there you
should not think of a one-to-one mapping
between a file on a block or really any
data structure and a block you know yeah
there's a deep dive yeah it's it's like
being developed it's your break time yet
we're bleeding in the mid section is
like how we get a file in our FS and
what happens in that file and what that
structure it creates yeah we'll do some
examples if you had like um if there's
more questions around that yeah right
now because you got say if you come back
we'll just do five minutes now
and you come back a quarter to then was
that against okay let's get into some
deep diving into how important files
work scene I give s there are fewer
people here but I'm sure they'll shuttle
in alright let's get started what
actually happens when I use ipfs add my
file here is a tube of bits and what
actually happens is that those bits get
divided up into chunks chunk one chunk
two and chunk free I'll be referring to
them later so just if you see C 1 C 2 C
3 this these are the bits of the file
the chunks of the file that get chunked
up so these chunks are arranged into a
tree structure which is a dag and so
we've already talked about like items in
the graphical node not every node needs
to contain a chunk of the file some of
these nodes are intermediate nodes they
could contain chunks of files they don't
always in this example they don't so
yeah we've we've got we've got the
chunks in the these three trunks in the
leaves of this diet has been created
when building the graph we already
talked a little bit about this but we
calculate a CID for every node and that
happens from the bottom up and that
happens because we can't calculate the
CID for the parent until we notice the
IDS for the children because the CID is
calculated from the data as well as any
links it has so the links we don't have
to see IDs for the links we can't
calculate the CID for the node and so we
we have to start at the bottom here and
and come back up and add a talk we can't
do the top one because we don't have the
one below it so we have to traverse all
the way down to the to the leaf and then
slowly make our way back up again and we
finally get to the root CID cqm hash six
and so for a single file this is the CID
that is returned to you and you can
think of this CID
as the CID for your file but actually
it's the CID of a node at the top of a
tree which makes up your file okay so
let's see it in action you can try this
out in your browsers as well
Dagda ipf esta IO drop a small file at
less than 100 K on to it people people
been dropping like five Meg pilots on it
and I've set the chunk size pretty slow
pretty low
and like their browsers start like
varying and because it's trying to
render oh crap so what it does is it
renders the dag for you and it's trying
to render a graph as like a million
notes so just drop a small file so here
we go if you go too small then you'll
just get a single single note say like
there's a sweet spot alright so here we
go you should and you should see
something that looks like this
oh yeah yep if I had my my folder of
bits right okay so you should see
something a little bit like this okay so
what is this this is a tool that runs
JSI PFS in your browser if you drop a
file onto it it will draw the dag that
gets created so what we can do is we can
drop a file on
right we can drop a fire alarm this is
to read me from the go I PFF repo and it
will render my dag for me and I can
hover over nose and I can see that on
the bottom here we've got a bar which
tells us information about each node
that has been created in the bag and
each and we can see that each now it has
a different CID in there they're put
here now they're displayed here and then
I can change I can change things like
the chunk size at the moment we're
creating 512 byte chunks but I can I can
change that to 102 4 and I get a graph
with far fewer nodes because each chunk
is able to have much more data in it I
can push that up to get an even smaller
bra now go away
this is the default chunk size in ipfs I
just get a single node for this small
file so back to its lights alright we've
already talked a little bit about this
but why why vary the chunk size so the
default in ipfs at the moment is
whenever you add a file just to chunk it
up in fixed chunk sizes we have a
default for that and we've just been
changing that a little bit and like
smaller chunks potentially because
they've got fewer bytes in them we've
got a better chance of DG Pingdom but it
like like michael's woody said it's more
work upfront to create all of those
chunks you have to you have to create
hash past the data and for the CID for
every single chunk and the more chunks
you have that's more work upfront if we
have large chunk files than that's less
work upfront but easier to like this
fewer nodes to traverse when you're
transferring the data if your notes
transfer and yeah it's not so
necessarily so great at DGP and smart
chunk sizes on the other hand
now that's interesting one so like maybe
you have a chunker the chunks at
keyframes so you can have better seeking
and videos now cool with that people or
it might be a chunker that does likes
like very cleverly chunks the file so
that so that if you add data in the
middle it doesn't throw off all of you
so the problem we've like fixed chunks
sizes is that if you add a bit of data
in the middle then everything like it
froze off the rest of the chunks and
those so those chunks are now different
and so the deegeu ping is not
necessarily as good if you use a smart
chunker which will take that into
account maybe give you a chunk that's a
little bit bigger could for that data
then you can keep the same chunk chunks
that you had before for the rest of the
file and so yeah so we have a smart
chunker already
it's called robbing you can use it in in
J s in the browser which is brand-new by
the way like a little atom thing which
is super cool and it's in that tag that
tag visual as well so you can check that
out and so yeah smart chunk size is
really interesting but again it's more
work upfront to do that work of kind of
figuring out where is the appropriate
boundaries let's say Robin doesn't know
ok Robin just takes a stream of bytes
and figures it out it's very it's very
clever it's been around a long time it's
not it's not my TFS specific but yeah
this so at the moment we have these two
chunker's I fixed and Robin that like we
could have many different chunker's for
in for many different file types and
that would do the right thing
based on the file
and you know we could have some really
good good DG thing good chunking anyway
okay so back to the example let's look
at D duping in the visualizer all right
what I've got here is a I've copied the
readme and what I've done is I've just
added some data to the end of it so it's
a little tiny bit bigger what I can do
is I can drag and drop that on on here
and what the visualizer tool does is it
adds a directory for these two files to
these these two nodes directly
descending from the directory are the
two files that I've at the roots of the
two files I've added basically and you
can see from the lines in this graph
they actually share almost all of the
nodes part from so right at the end here
so we can pick these up and drag them
you can see that there's two little
chunks here and here which the only two
chunks that are not shared by by these
files which is kind of cool and you can
see that this this chunk if you look at
the the bite-size hitted it's this trunk
has slightly more bytes than this one
and what's happened here is that we
haven't managed to get it so that it
like it's complete boundary so there
will be some shared data in these two in
these two chunks but one of them has
that extra bit of data that I've added
to the file so there this is this is d
joopa and this is how the two - very
similar files on disk can don't actually
take up to time storage space in our key
offense
right okay so actually not told you the
whole truth about this that nodes in the
graph are not just made out of the chunk
of the file file data every chunk is
wrapped in this thing that we call the
UNIX FS wrapper and UNIX FS wrappers are
they can have three files they can be
directories there are other types but
these these two are the main main two
and it allows to allows us to
distinguish between what is file data
and what is a directory so it's kind of
a dream within a dream it's not just
that it's not just the data it's the
wrapper and that is that it becomes the
data so what that does is it actually
adds like a few bytes of overhead to
every node because we've got the UNIX FS
wrapper around each needs a bit of data
so let's take a quick look at that in
here
okay so we can see in the bottom left
hand corner if you hover over a knows
the the UNIX FS type that that mode has
and this this one at the top as I said
they would it that what the tool does is
it because two files in a directory so
this is a UNIX FS directory and these
other nodes are all kind of UNIX FS file
knows so the total bytes that make up
this note and the bytes of data in this
node slightly different and that's
because there is this UNIX FS wrapper
there's a few bytes of racking data that
that is in every single node what we can
do is we can change we can change the
leaves to using rule ease what that does
is instead of adding the UNIX FS wrapper
to the to the leaves it will not do that
and just it will just add a row buffer
of data as the leaf you can see that the
bytes total for these nodes are exactly
the same as the bytes of the data so we
don't have this Raptor anymore and it
means that we save a little bit of space
on every node we create because we don't
we're not wrapping it with with any
information it also means that we get a
v1 CID so you can see here this is this
is a v1 CID so these ones are like start
with QM that's a v-0 these ones start
with K in this way in this case
using so did CID is different because I
know where the hash is different but why
is it different for CITV zeros as we
talked about earlier they have implicit
things about them one of those things
that is implicit that is not written
that means it's a V 0 CID is the IPL D
format and the IP of the format for
these nodes is dag PB for the raw nodes
because the IP our D format if you
remember tells us how to decode the data
so we know that that what this data is
is it's a it's a proto buff encoded
chunk of data and decode it with using
as it as if it were a proto so this this
is just raw bytes and so this has the IP
LD format I tell D roll
so these lungs it's a good question and
the I think the the answer is it will be
soon
we're the we're kind of in the middle of
transitioning at the moment if you ipfs
add things and specify this CID version
to one then your guests v1 CID it's just
because this is this is what people are
expecting at the moment and it's a big
breaking change to switch to V 1 because
the see the suddenly the see IDs you get
back are not are completely different to
and to have what you would have got back
before so like I said this is now this
is now a v1 CID because it's using a
different format and it we really cannot
be a visa is the early because it's not
a die PBC ER and encoded data cool so
that's all right there's also different
graph layouts that have different
performance characteristics balanced
layout is the default you get when you
ipfs ad and it's simple to build and
really easy to traverse but it's kind of
difficult to edit if you were to change
in the middle you'd have to do a lot of
rebalancing to balance it out again
where it's like we've got trickle as
well is an option it's more difficult to
build but it's really great for like
streaming for example because the time
to first byte is a lot less that you can
imagine like if I I have
snowed and I need to get hold of this
node and I can start streaming there's
like imagine I've got a big file like a
big movie file and it's made a big
balance deck and if I want to start
streaming it then I'm gonna have to get
this node this node potentially this
node isn't in this node before I can
start streaming says time to first byte
is going to be much better with a kind
of trickle style of dad alright so let's
take a look at the different the two
different types of of DAG layout that we
have available all right so this is the
balance layer and since I've been
looking at so far but if we can use this
drop down here and we can switch to a
trickle dag and you can see that the
layout has completely changed this kind
of it makes a really interesting
structure if you add like a bigger
bigger file on it but one thing to
notice is that this cid up here if we
check it out it's a QM it kind of ends
with CW ESU if I if I change the balance
tag starts of QM doesn't start to end
with the same same characters and this
is the same data we've not changed the
data we've all we've done is change the
options here actually if you change any
any of these options then you get a
different CID so this there's something
to know there
or take take heed or at least you do get
different C IDs if you change the
different options because the reason is
the
it may have more or less children and
those children will have different will
have different see IDs because they have
more or less children so it basically
propagates all the way up to the top and
you just get the difference the idea for
the same data
now if you've used the same chunking
algorithm then your leaves will probably
still have the same same data that can
be duped but it would just be the
intermediate nodes that have different
see I think different ideas say okay
question all of the blocks include links
which I think you mentioned which causes
the hash to change yes yeah yeah so yeah
so I say it's the same data in that it's
the same file data that was added to the
deck but the intermediate nodes they
other think they are the things that are
changed they're causing and the the the
root CID to have changed yeah you're
right
as it just changed
based on your dad choice well you get a
lot less eg thin layer the same file in
two different diagnosis it will have not
very much
yeah if you change if you change the
junker then yeah that the the it way it
won't necessarily be nearly as well yeah
yeah thing is this this this is all
available as like options but you know
99% of the time people will just be a
BFS adding and it will it should be
doing the right thing and I think we
need to get better at actually building
an appropriate dag for the file you've
added and for choosing it you know good
chunker because of this city correctly
the actual chunks will stay the same so
you sort of a lot of the duping options
yes yeah so you could imagine not if you
change the chunk size right if you just
change the diet yeah so you could
imagine a service that takes data that
was added using a balanced diet
restructuring is yellow screaming doses
yes oh gee yeah yeah exactly yeah yeah
that's interesting
all right cool let's move on a little
bit okay the mutable file system of
cases we've got a lot of time left so
we're gonna this is meant to be wait
where does this session go on to us cool
fast
okay all right a mutable filesystem okay
what is it
well let me explain okay
music the NFS the mutable filesystem is
an abstraction in ipfs that lets you
deal deal with files in ipfs as if they
were a mutable unix-style filesystem it
takes care of the busy work involved
when creating new dag structures when
you change files so at a high level you
can kind of think of it like a tracking
there that map's paths to see IDs and
like a regular UNIX style file system
you work with paths and you have to
familiar basic commands available to you
like move copy make there you know that
sort of stuff
when you're addressing your cat gifs
using the immutable hash like this so
not MSS and you have the whole ipfs
network at your disposal so if it's not
found locally then it will be delivered
from another peer on the network
assuming it can be found when you are
using an IP FS path like this path to my
important business document you're
asking just your node for that file if
it can't be found on your node then it
will fail so what I'm trying to
illustrate here is that there's no
global route NFS namespace there's no
kind of global Dropbox thing that we're
all writing to so yeah but what you can
do is you can turn that MF s path into a
CID you can use ipfs file staff and it
will give you give you more than the cid
but it gives you so i can snap my
business document text and I get back a
CI dqm dot txt and then we could share
that CID with someone and they'd be able
to are like asked the or get that
content from the peer-to-peer network
but you should be kind of careful when
sharing a CID that you've got from your
NFS
why well okay let's let's look into what
happens when you edit files in em FS in
order to answer that question
okay so adding content to a file let's
say I store all of my notes on frogs in
a file in em FS / notes lab frogs dot
txt okay so what happens when I want to
update my notes with neuf like I've seen
a new rare frog and I want to add it to
the end of the file like you can imagine
the path / notes that frogs dot text to
be something like this in the dag
so a UNIX FS directory for slash right
at the top and that is the current EMFs
route and ipfs keeps track of this
everything that hangs off of that MF s
route is safe from garbage collection it
won't be collected so that's that's good
to be so what happens when we want to
add some data to that file we've got a
new chunk QM chunk free and that's got
all of my notes on this new frog that
I've seen in it well we need a new node
we need an updated note which points
that the previous chunks as well as this
new chunk so we've got a new and you
know that new cid for the frogs file and
because we've got a new cid for the
frogs file we get a new cid and a new
node for the notes directory because as
I said that CID for knows is created
from the data as well as the links
because my link has changed my directory
has changed and this propagates all the
way up to the root so qm / d RR we've
got a new cid for the m FS root an IP FS
keeps track of that so it's now this new
m FS root is this directory and notice
that I've grayed out here and now
eligible for garbage collections so they
may be collected depending on the
settings of your ipfs note they could be
collected you know whenever in
now when you've added those more content
or never at all you never know yeah okay
so back to sharing content what have we
learned well what happens if you share a
CID for a file if someone they've got
from a file stat from your em FS thing
and then edit the file anyone speculate
right it might it might be good so the
CID for that file changes right the
recipient doesn't get informed that it's
that's been changed there's no automated
kind of by the way the CID has been
changed like this but ipfs could never
know that because it wouldn't know that
you share that CID with with someone
else and it's also not like the
recipient is not guaranteed to be able
to access that hold at content like they
might be able to because it might not be
a garbage collected yet but they might
not be able to yeah question yeah yeah
it would but it's there's nothing kind
of does that automatic at the moment
yeah so you can yeah cool okay yeah talk
about it yeah I'm glad you're all
listening
cool okay so the the this is the
difference between code names and
addresses and MF s is names for content
but it says nothing about their dresses
their continent dressing is like has
this restraint the content is immutable
yet we are we have this mutability layer
on top of it and also a location
addressing is kind of fun because we can
change things and still get them at that
URL but there are we've already talked
about the problems that are the kind of
a parent with that we in ipfs have this
thing called IP NS which which is a
means of addressing mutable content and
so i p NS maps names to address this
kind of like dns maps names to IP
addresses but in a p2p system it
requires kind of some kind of quorum
over what the latest version of the
thing is so it can sometimes take some
time to figure out what that latest
version is before you get it so there
are some kind of issues with that but
yeah i pns is a is one way in which you
can address mutable content so you'd
have to somehow stats the NFS route
every time it changes and update your IP
NS record to point to that new and I'm
not going to go any more into a DNS in
this in a session but the rest of the
time which is now like two minutes
because someone get the daughter
okay cool and we've got not very much
time left but I will point you at this
new britains brand-new tutorial we've
got this this site called proto dot
school which other which teaches people
about ipfs concepts we've got a brand
new tutorial for EM FS that was built
for camp and if you head on over to
proto school that on the home page you
should see a em FS link to the em FS
tutorial which will cover a bunch of
things that I've just talked about but
as well as there's coding exercises and
all sorts that and that will kind of
keep you occupied and help you learn a
bit more about